README.md, before:

# Disaster.io
### 참여형 방재 교육 게임 (Interactive Disaster Prevention Education Game)

 Disaster.io는 재난 예방교육시 교육자-참여자 상호작용이 가능하도록 돕는 참여형 방재 교육 게임 플랫폼입니다. 본 프로토타입에서는 DISASTER.IO 플랫폼의 데모 게임인 *가방으로 살아남기*를 제작해보았습니다.

💡  **가방으로 살아남기**는 게임 요소로 재난 교육의 효과를 높이는 **웹 기반 교육 게임**입니다. 재난 상황에서 생존 가방을 준비하고, 시뮬레이션을 통해 생존 전략을 테스트하고 피드백하는 단계로 구성되어 있습니다.

Disaster.io is an interactive disaster education game platform designed to facilitate educator-participant interaction during disaster prevention training. In this prototype, we have developed *Surviving with a Bag*, a demo game for the DISASTER.IO platform.

**💡 *Surviving with a Bag*** is a **web-based educational game** designed to enhance disaster education through gamification. It focuses on preparing survival bags, testing survival strategies through simulations, and providing feedback.

![logo_img.png](logo_img.png)


## 프로젝트 개요 (Project Overview)

- **목적**
    - 이 솔루션은 **게임 기반 학습 방식을 활용하여 교육자와 참여자 간 실시간 상호작용**을 제공합니다. 기존의 일방향적인 교육 방식과 달리, 참여형 게임 메커니즘을 통해 몰입감과 학습 효과를 극대화합니다.
    - 본 프로토타입에서는 DISASTER.IO 플랫폼의 데모 게임인 **가방으로 살아남기**를 제작했습니다.
    - This solution utilizes a **game-based learning approach to enable real-time interaction** between educators and participants. Unlike traditional one-way education methods, it maximizes engagement and learning through interactive game mechanics.
- **첫번째 프로젝트 - 가방으로 살아남기**
    - 기존 오프라인 생존가방 보드게임의 장점을 활용하여, 이를 **디지털화한 온라인 게임**을 개발하였습니다.
    - Digitize the advantages of an existing offline survival bag board game by developing an online game.
        <details>
        <summary>생존가방 보드게임</summary>
            실제 재난 상황이 발생했을 때, 필요한 물품들을 빠르게 챙겨보는 연습. 교육자와 참여자가 함께 참여해서 몰입도를 높일 수 있습니다.
            *Survival Bag Kit* - An exercise where participants quickly gather essential items in a simulated disaster scenario. The interactive nature enhances engagement between educators and participants.
        <br>
            <img src="bagkit_img.png" alt="설명" style="width:35%; height:auto;">
        </details>
    - 참고(Reference Models): 교육자가 게임을 호스팅하여 진행하고 피드백을 수집하는 방식
        - [Kahoot](https://kahoot.com/)
        - [Slido](https://www.slido.com/)
- **주요 기능**
    1. **방 생성 및 참여**: 사용자는 방을 생성하고, 방 코드로 다른 팀원들이 참여할 수 있습니다.
    2. **가방 선택**: 각 팀은 생존 가방을 선택하고, 필요한 아이템을 추가할 수 있습니다.
    3. **시뮬레이션:** 선택한 아이템을 기반으로 시뮬레이션을 진행하여 생존 전략을 테스트합니다.
    4. **결과 확인**: 시뮬레이션 결과를 확인하고, 각 팀의 상태를 모니터링할 수 있습니다.

    <ol start="1">
    <li><b>Room Creation and Participation</b>: 
    Users can create a room and invite team members via a code.
    </li><li><b>Bag Selection</b>: 
    Each team selects a survival bag and adds necessary items.
    </li><li><b>Simulation</b>: 
    Run simulations based on chosen items to test survival strategies.
    </li><li><b>Results</b>: 
    View simulation results and monitor each team’s status.</li>
    </li>
    </ol>
## 프로젝트 결과 (Project Outcomes)

### 데모 영상 (Demo Video)
[Demo Video 링크](#)  

### 특징 및 장점 (Features & Benefits)
- **실시간 피드백 및 상호작용:**  
    교육자와 학습자 간 실시간 피드백과 상호작용을 통해 학습 흥미를 유발하고 기억에 오래 남는 경험을 제공합니다.
- **몰입형 학습:**  
    다양한 시나리오와 게임 메커니즘을 활용하여 재미와 학습을 조화롭게 결합한 참여형 교육을 제공합니다.
- **효과적인 교육 전달:**  
    단방향 강의를 넘어선 상호작용 방식으로 기존 방재 교육의 한계를 극복하고, 더 높은 학습 효과를 보장합니다.
- **교육 확산성:**  
    온라인 게임 형태로 시공간의 제약 없이 누구나 쉽게 접근 가능하며, 방재 교육 자료로 활용할 수 있어 교육 전파에 기여합니다.
- **Real-Time Feedback and Interaction:**  
    Facilitates real-time feedback and interaction between educators and learners, enhancing engagement and creating a lasting learning experience.
- **Immersive Learning:**  
    Offers interactive education by combining engaging scenarios with game mechanics, balancing fun and learning effectively.
- **Effective Knowledge Delivery:**  
    Overcomes the limitations of traditional disaster education through participatory methods, ensuring greater learning impact.
- **Scalable Education:**  
    Provides disaster education without time or space constraints through online games, enabling easy access and contributing to the dissemination of educational resources.

## 기대 효과 (Expected Benefits)


### 영향 (Impact)

- **교육 참여율 및 만족도 증가**
- **재난 교육의 효과 증가**: 쉽게 흥미를 느낄 수 있는 게임으로 교육 내용을 효과적으로 전달합니다.
- **온라인 재난 교육 콘텐츠 증가**: 제작된 플랫폼에 높은 품질의 온라인 재난 교육 콘텐츠를 개제할 수 있습니다.

- **Increased participation and satisfaction in education**
- **Increased effectiveness of disaster training**: Effectively delivers educational content through games that are easy to engage with.
- **Increased online disaster education content**: High-quality online disaster education content can be published on the developed platform.

### 확장 가능성 (Scalability)

- **다양한 시나리오 업데이트**
    전 세계의 다양한 재난 상황을 기반으로 새로운 시나리오를 지속적으로 추가하여 교육 효과를 극대화할 수 있습니다.
- **Multiplayer Mode**
    A mode where multiple players collaborate to pack survival bags and create survival plans in disaster scenarios.



## 설치 및 실행 방법 (Installation & Execution)

**1. Check if the Docker Daemon is running**
If the Docker Daemon is not installed, please download it from 🖥️[Download Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/).

**2. Clone the Repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/ijake-16/disaster.io.git
   ```
**3. Move to the project directory**
   ```bash
   cd disaster.io
   ```
**4. Run the App with Docker**
   ```bash
   docker compose up --build # for mac/linux
   ```
   ```powershell
   docker-compose up --build # for windows
   ```
**5. Go to the Start Page**
    link: [https://localhost:8080/](https://localhost:8080/)

## 팀 소개 (Team Introduction)

### 팀원 (Team Members)
- **김정빈 (Jeongbin Kim)**: PM, 기획자, 개발자 (PM, Planner, Developer)  
  ✉️ Mail: jake16@kaist.ac.kr | GitHub: [ijake-16](https://github.com/ijake-16)
- **윤지훈 (Jihoon Youn)**: 기획자, 개발자 (Planner, Lead Developer)  
  ✉️ Mail: jihoon9835@gmail.com | GitHub: [younjihoon](https://github.com/younjihoon)
- **김지민 (Jimin Kim)**: 기획자, 개발자 (Planner, Developer)  
  ✉️ Mail: kjm10122@gmail.com | GitHub: [VVictorVV](https://github.com/VVictorVV)
- **이재현 (Jaehyeon Lee)**: 개발자 (Developer)  
  ✉️ Mail: jh5323565@kaist.ac.kr | GitHub: [jaedungg](https://github.com/jaedungg)
- **임자영 (Jayeong Im)**: 디자이너, 기획자 (Designer, Planner)  
  ✉️ Mail: bagjay@kaist.ac.kr | GitHub: [Gomchiiii](https://github.com/Gomchiiii)
- **황보민석 (Minseok Hwangbo)**: 개발자 (Developer)  
  ✉️ Mail: ecobrick@kaist.ac.kr | GitHub: [hwangbominseok](https://github.com/hwangbominseok)

### 펠로우 및 멘토 (Fellow & Mentor)
- **Fellow : 더프라미스 김동훈 펠로우님** (Donghoon Kim @ The Promise): [Organization Website](https://www.thepromise.or.kr/)
- **Mentor : 카카오페이 이상은 멘토님** (Sangeun Lee @ Kakaopay): 멘토 연락처 또는 링크


## 개발 환경 (Development Environment)

### Frontend
- **Language:** JavaScript
- **Framework:** SolidJS

### Backend
- **Language:** Python
- **Framework:** FastAPI

### Other Tools
- Axios, Ky(HTTP Client), XLSX(Data)

### 버전 관리
- **Git branch 사용:** PR 기반의 프로세스를 적용. Notion을 통해 이슈 확인 및 프로젝트 버전 관리.
- **Git Branching:** A pull request-based workflow.
- **Issue Management:** Managed via Notion, with GitHub for specific issues.
### 협업 및 커뮤니케이션
- **일정 관리:** Notion에서 Kanban과 Calender 위젯으로 일정 관리. Todo Page를 만들어 작업 분배 및 진행 현황 확인.
- **이슈 관리:** Notion을 바탕으로 GitHub 이슈 작성 및 관리.
- **Schedule Management:** Use Notion’s Kanban boards and calendar widgets for task tracking and scheduling.
- **Issue Management:** Draft and manage GitHub issues through Notion.
- 🛠️  [Notion page link](https://www.notion.so/7f309ba38db1464aa59cc1dd7ab897d7?pvs=21)


## 연관 자료 (Related Resources)
- [최종 발표 자료 링크 (Final Presentation Materials)](https://www.figma.com/slides/Hwml6sUaOU8AFqtlaMGxHO/%5B13%EC%A3%BC%EC%B0%A8%5D-Final-Presentation?node-id=1-540&t=zUOB05o0XEOy3HZw-1)
- [참조 자료 (References)](#)
- [펠로우 조직 사이트 (Fellow Organization Website)](https://www.thepromise.or.kr/)

Commit message:

add: link to deployed service in Readme.

README.md, after:

# Disaster.io
### 참여형 방재 교육 게임 (Interactive Disaster Prevention Education Game)

 Disaster.io는 재난 예방교육시 교육자-참여자 상호작용이 가능하도록 돕는 참여형 방재 교육 게임 플랫폼입니다. 본 프로토타입에서는 DISASTER.IO 플랫폼의 데모 게임인 *가방으로 살아남기*를 제작해보았습니다.

💡  **가방으로 살아남기**는 게임 요소로 재난 교육의 효과를 높이는 **웹 기반 교육 게임**입니다. 재난 상황에서 생존 가방을 준비하고, 시뮬레이션을 통해 생존 전략을 테스트하고 피드백하는 단계로 구성되어 있습니다.

Disaster.io is an interactive disaster education game platform designed to facilitate educator-participant interaction during disaster prevention training. In this prototype, we have developed *Surviving with a Bag*, a demo game for the DISASTER.IO platform.

**💡 *Surviving with a Bag*** is a **web-based educational game** designed to enhance disaster education through gamification. It focuses on preparing survival bags, testing survival strategies through simulations, and providing feedback.

![logo_img.png](logo_img.png)


## 프로젝트 개요 (Project Overview)

- **목적**
    - 이 솔루션은 **게임 기반 학습 방식을 활용하여 교육자와 참여자 간 실시간 상호작용**을 제공합니다. 기존의 일방향적인 교육 방식과 달리, 참여형 게임 메커니즘을 통해 몰입감과 학습 효과를 극대화합니다.
    - 본 프로토타입에서는 DISASTER.IO 플랫폼의 데모 게임인 **가방으로 살아남기**를 제작했습니다.
    - This solution utilizes a **game-based learning approach to enable real-time interaction** between educators and participants. Unlike traditional one-way education methods, it maximizes engagement and learning through interactive game mechanics.
- **첫번째 프로젝트 - 가방으로 살아남기**
    - 기존 오프라인 생존가방 보드게임의 장점을 활용하여, 이를 **디지털화한 온라인 게임**을 개발하였습니다.
    - Digitize the advantages of an existing offline survival bag board game by developing an online game.
        <details>
        <summary>생존가방 보드게임</summary>
            실제 재난 상황이 발생했을 때, 필요한 물품들을 빠르게 챙겨보는 연습. 교육자와 참여자가 함께 참여해서 몰입도를 높일 수 있습니다.
            *Survival Bag Kit* - An exercise where participants quickly gather essential items in a simulated disaster scenario. The interactive nature enhances engagement between educators and participants.
        <br>
            <img src="bagkit_img.png" alt="설명" style="width:35%; height:auto;">
        </details>
    - 참고(Reference Models): 교육자가 게임을 호스팅하여 진행하고 피드백을 수집하는 방식
        - [Kahoot](https://kahoot.com/)
        - [Slido](https://www.slido.com/)
- **주요 기능**
    1. **방 생성 및 참여**: 사용자는 방을 생성하고, 방 코드로 다른 팀원들이 참여할 수 있습니다.
    2. **가방 선택**: 각 팀은 생존 가방을 선택하고, 필요한 아이템을 추가할 수 있습니다.
    3. **시뮬레이션:** 선택한 아이템을 기반으로 시뮬레이션을 진행하여 생존 전략을 테스트합니다.
    4. **결과 확인**: 시뮬레이션 결과를 확인하고, 각 팀의 상태를 모니터링할 수 있습니다.

    <ol start="1">
    <li><b>Room Creation and Participation</b>: 
    Users can create a room and invite team members via a code.
    </li><li><b>Bag Selection</b>: 
    Each team selects a survival bag and adds necessary items.
    </li><li><b>Simulation</b>: 
    Run simulations based on chosen items to test survival strategies.
    </li><li><b>Results</b>: 
    View simulation results and monitor each team’s status.</li>
    </li>
    </ol>
## 프로젝트 결과 (Project Outcomes)

### 데모 영상 (Demo Video)
[Demo Video 링크](#)  

### 특징 및 장점 (Features & Benefits)
- **실시간 피드백 및 상호작용:**  
    교육자와 학습자 간 실시간 피드백과 상호작용을 통해 학습 흥미를 유발하고 기억에 오래 남는 경험을 제공합니다.
- **몰입형 학습:**  
    다양한 시나리오와 게임 메커니즘을 활용하여 재미와 학습을 조화롭게 결합한 참여형 교육을 제공합니다.
- **효과적인 교육 전달:**  
    단방향 강의를 넘어선 상호작용 방식으로 기존 방재 교육의 한계를 극복하고, 더 높은 학습 효과를 보장합니다.
- **교육 확산성:**  
    온라인 게임 형태로 시공간의 제약 없이 누구나 쉽게 접근 가능하며, 방재 교육 자료로 활용할 수 있어 교육 전파에 기여합니다.
- **Real-Time Feedback and Interaction:**  
    Facilitates real-time feedback and interaction between educators and learners, enhancing engagement and creating a lasting learning experience.
- **Immersive Learning:**  
    Offers interactive education by combining engaging scenarios with game mechanics, balancing fun and learning effectively.
- **Effective Knowledge Delivery:**  
    Overcomes the limitations of traditional disaster education through participatory methods, ensuring greater learning impact.
- **Scalable Education:**  
    Provides disaster education without time or space constraints through online games, enabling easy access and contributing to the dissemination of educational resources.

## 기대 효과 (Expected Benefits)


### 영향 (Impact)

- **교육 참여율 및 만족도 증가**
- **재난 교육의 효과 증가**: 쉽게 흥미를 느낄 수 있는 게임으로 교육 내용을 효과적으로 전달합니다.
- **온라인 재난 교육 콘텐츠 증가**: 제작된 플랫폼에 높은 품질의 온라인 재난 교육 콘텐츠를 개제할 수 있습니다.

- **Increased participation and satisfaction in education**
- **Increased effectiveness of disaster training**: Effectively delivers educational content through games that are easy to engage with.
- **Increased online disaster education content**: High-quality online disaster education content can be published on the developed platform.

### 확장 가능성 (Scalability)

- **다양한 시나리오 업데이트**
    전 세계의 다양한 재난 상황을 기반으로 새로운 시나리오를 지속적으로 추가하여 교육 효과를 극대화할 수 있습니다.
- **Multiplayer Mode**
    A mode where multiple players collaborate to pack survival bags and create survival plans in disaster scenarios.



## 설치 및 실행 방법 (Installation & Execution)

### Service is now deployed and hosted on https://disaster.buttercrab.net/
If you want to run the program in your local environment, follow the instruction.

**1. Check if the Docker Daemon is running**
If the Docker Daemon is not installed, please download it from 🖥️[Download Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/).

**2. Clone the Repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/ijake-16/disaster.io.git
   ```
**3. Move to the project directory**
   ```bash
   cd disaster.io
   ```
**4. Run the App with Docker**
   ```bash
   docker compose up --build # for mac/linux
   ```
   ```powershell
   docker-compose up --build # for windows
   ```
**5. Go to the Start Page**
    link: [https://localhost:8080/](https://localhost:8080/)

## 팀 소개 (Team Introduction)

### 팀원 (Team Members)
- **김정빈 (Jeongbin Kim)**: PM, 기획자, 개발자 (PM, Planner, Developer)  
  ✉️ Mail: jake16@kaist.ac.kr | GitHub: [ijake-16](https://github.com/ijake-16)
- **윤지훈 (Jihoon Youn)**: 기획자, 개발자 (Planner, Lead Developer)  
  ✉️ Mail: jihoon9835@gmail.com | GitHub: [younjihoon](https://github.com/younjihoon)
- **김지민 (Jimin Kim)**: 기획자, 개발자 (Planner, Developer)  
  ✉️ Mail: kjm10122@gmail.com | GitHub: [VVictorVV](https://github.com/VVictorVV)
- **이재현 (Jaehyeon Lee)**: 개발자 (Developer)  
  ✉️ Mail: jh5323565@kaist.ac.kr | GitHub: [jaedungg](https://github.com/jaedungg)
- **임자영 (Jayeong Im)**: 디자이너, 기획자 (Designer, Planner)  
  ✉️ Mail: bagjay@kaist.ac.kr | GitHub: [Gomchiiii](https://github.com/Gomchiiii)
- **황보민석 (Minseok Hwangbo)**: 개발자 (Developer)  
  ✉️ Mail: ecobrick@kaist.ac.kr | GitHub: [hwangbominseok](https://github.com/hwangbominseok)

### 펠로우 및 멘토 (Fellow & Mentor)
- **Fellow : 더프라미스 김동훈 펠로우님** (Donghoon Kim @ The Promise): [Organization Website](https://www.thepromise.or.kr/)
- **Mentor : 카카오페이 이상은 멘토님** (Sangeun Lee @ Kakaopay): 멘토 연락처 또는 링크


## 개발 환경 (Development Environment)

### Frontend
- **Language:** JavaScript
- **Framework:** SolidJS

### Backend
- **Language:** Python
- **Framework:** FastAPI

### Other Tools
- Axios, Ky(HTTP Client), XLSX(Data)

### 버전 관리
- **Git branch 사용:** PR 기반의 프로세스를 적용. Notion을 통해 이슈 확인 및 프로젝트 버전 관리.
- **Git Branching:** A pull request-based workflow.
- **Issue Management:** Managed via Notion, with GitHub for specific issues.
### 협업 및 커뮤니케이션
- **일정 관리:** Notion에서 Kanban과 Calender 위젯으로 일정 관리. Todo Page를 만들어 작업 분배 및 진행 현황 확인.
- **이슈 관리:** Notion을 바탕으로 GitHub 이슈 작성 및 관리.
- **Schedule Management:** Use Notion’s Kanban boards and calendar widgets for task tracking and scheduling.
- **Issue Management:** Draft and manage GitHub issues through Notion.
- 🛠️  [Notion page link](https://www.notion.so/7f309ba38db1464aa59cc1dd7ab897d7?pvs=21)


## 연관 자료 (Related Resources)
- [최종 발표 자료 링크 (Final Presentation Materials)](https://www.figma.com/slides/Hwml6sUaOU8AFqtlaMGxHO/%5B13%EC%A3%BC%EC%B0%A8%5D-Final-Presentation?node-id=1-540&t=zUOB05o0XEOy3HZw-1)
- [참조 자료 (References)](#)
- [펠로우 조직 사이트 (Fellow Organization Website)](https://www.thepromise.or.kr/)
